<!---
This is an autogenerated file!

Please do not edit this file directly, but instead make changes to the
sigs.yaml file in the project root.

To understand how this file is generated, see https://github.com/kubeflow/community/generator/README.md
--->
# Feature Store Special Interest Group

SIG Feature Store covers the definition, management, storage, discovery, and serving of features to models.

The [charter](charter.md) defines the scope and governance of the Feature Store Special Interest Group.

## Meetings
* Monthly SIG Meeting: [Wednesdays at 18:00 PT (Pacific Time)]() (monthly). [Convert to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=18:00&tz=PT%20%28Pacific%20Time%29).
  * [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1h2BMuN6V6cGFQrSRk7msmYVmZdrouLRV_EPR_tphZrU/edit#).

## Leadership

### Chairs
The Chairs of the SIG run operations and processes governing the SIG.

* Kevin Stumpf (**[@kevinstumpf](https://github.com/kevinstumpf)**)
* Oleksii Moskalenko (**[@pyalex](https://github.com/pyalex)**), Gojek
* Willem Pienaar (**[@woop](https://github.com/woop)**), Gojek

### Technical Leads
The Technical Leads of the SIG establish new subprojects, decommission existing
subprojects, and resolve cross-subproject technical issues and decisions.

* Kevin Stumpf (**[@kevinstumpf](https://github.com/kevinstumpf)**)
* Oleksii Moskalenko (**[@pyalex](https://github.com/pyalex)**), Gojek
* Willem Pienaar (**[@woop](https://github.com/woop)**), Gojek

## Contact
- Slack: [#feast](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/feast)
- [Mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubeflow-discuss)
- [Open Community Issues/PRs](https://github.com/kubeflow/community/labels/sig%2Farea/sig-feature-store)
- GitHub Teams:
    - [@kubeflow/sig-feature-store](https://github.com/orgs/kubeflow/teams/sig-feature-store) - Feature store development and roadmap

<!-- BEGIN CUSTOM CONTENT -->

<!-- END CUSTOM CONTENT -->
